.\"
.\" bittwiste.1 - manpage for the bittwiste program
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 - 2012 Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.TH BITTWISTE 1 "21 April 2012"
.SH NAME
.B bittwiste
\-- pcap capture file editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bittwiste
[
.B \-I
.I input
] [
.B \-O
.I output
] [
.B \-L
.I layer
] [
.B \-X
.I payload
]
.ti +10
[
.B -C
] [
.B \-M
.I linktype
] [
.B \-D
.I offset
] [
.B \-R
.I range
]
.ti +10
[
.B \-S
.I timeframe
] [
.B \-T
.I header
]
.ti +10
[
.I header-specific-options
] [
.B \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes the \fIbittwiste\fP program, the \fIpcap\fP(3) capture file editor. \fIBittwiste\fP is designed to work only with Ethernet frame, e.g. link type DLT_EN10MB in \fIpcap\fP(3), with a maximum frame size of 1514 bytes which is equivalent to a MTU of 1500 bytes, 14 bytes for Ethernet header.
.PP
\fIBittwiste\fP can currently edit Ethernet, ARP, IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP headers. If run with the \fB-X\fP flag, you can append your own payload after any of these headers; specified using the \fB-L\fP and \fB-T\fP flag. \fIBittwiste\fP will, if not run with the \fB-C\fP flag, recalculate the checksums for IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP packets, except for the last fragment of a fragmented IP datagram; \fIbittwiste\fP does not currently support checksum correction for the last fragment of a fragmented IP datagram. While parsing the packets in a trace file, \fIbittwiste\fP will skip, i.e. write to output file as is, any truncated packet, for example, an ICMP packet with a captured length of 25 bytes (we need at least 28 bytes; 14 bytes for Ethernet header, minimum 20 bytes for IP header, and 4 bytes for ICMP header) does not give enough information on its ICMP header for \fIbittwiste\fP to read and modify it. In this case, you can utilize the \fB-L\fP and \fB-T\fP flag to copy the original packet up to its IP header and append your customized ICMP header and data to the packet using the \fB-X\fP flag. When specifying payload that covers the ICMP, TCP or UDP header and its data, you can use zeros, e.g. 0000 for 2 bytes of zeros, for the header checksum which is then corrected automatically by \fIbittwiste\fP.
.PP
In order to simplify the way options are specified, you can only edit packets of a specific type supplied to the \fB-T\fP flag per execution of \fIbittwiste\fP on a trace file. In addition, the \fB-T\fP flag must appear last among the general options which are the \fB-I\fP, \fB-O\fP, \fB-L\fP, \fB-X\fP, \fB-C\fP, \fB-M\fP, \fB-D\fP, \fB-R\fP and \fB-S\fP flag.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-I \fIinput\fP
Input pcap based trace file.
.TP
.B \-O \fIoutput\fP
Output trace file.
.TP
.B \-L \fIlayer\fP
Copy up to the specified \fIlayer\fP and discard the remaining data. Value for \fIlayer\fP must be either 2, 3 or 4 where 2 for Ethernet, 3 for ARP or IP, and 4 for ICMP, TCP or UDP.
.TP
.B \-X \fIpayload\fP
Append \fIpayload\fP in hex digits to the end of each packet.
.br
Example: \fB-X\fP 0302aad1
.br
\fB-X\fP flag is ignored if \fB-L\fP and \fB-T\fP flag are not specified.
.TP
.B \-C
Specify this flag to disable checksum correction. Checksum correction is applicable for non-fragmented IP, ICMP, TCP, and UDP packets only.
.TP
.B \-M \fIlinktype\fP
Replace the \fIlinktype\fP stored in the pcap file header. Typically, value for \fIlinktype\fP is 1 for Ethernet.
.br
Example: -M 12 (for raw IP), -M 51 (for PPPoE)
.IP
For the complete list, see:
.br
\fIhttp://www.tcpdump.org/linktypes.html\fP
.TP
.B \-D \fIoffset\fP
Delete the specified byte \fIoffset\fP from each packet.
.br
First byte (starting from link layer header) starts from 1.
.br
\fB-L\fP, \fB-X\fP, \fB-C\fP and \fB-T\fP flag are ignored if \fB-D\fP flag is specified.
.br
Example: \fB-D\fP 15-40, \fB-D\fP 10 or \fB-D\fP 18-9999
.TP
.B \-R \fIrange\fP
Save only the specified \fIrange\fP of packets.
.br
Example: \fB-R\fP 5-21 or \fB-R\fP 9
.TP
.B \-S \fItimeframe\fP
Save only the packets within the specified \fItimeframe\fP with up to one-second resolution using DD/MM/YYYY,HH:MM:SS as the format for start and end time in \fItimeframe\fP.
.br
Example: \fB-S\fP 22/10/2006,21:47:35-24/10/2006,13:16:05
.br
\fB-S\fP flag is evaluated after \fB-R\fP flag.
.TP
.B \-T \fIheader\fP
Edit only the specified \fIheader\fP. Possible keywords for \fIheader\fP are, \fBeth\fP, \fBarp\fP, \fBip\fP, \fBicmp\fP, \fBtcp\fP, or \fBudp\fP. \fB-T\fP flag must appear last among the general options.
.TP
.B \-h
Print version information and usage.
.TP
\fIheader-specific-options\fP
Each packet that matches the type supplied to the \fB-T\fP flag is modified based on the options described below:
.IP
Options for \fBeth\fP (RFC 894):
.RS
.TP
.B \-d \fIdmac\fP or \fIomac\fP,\fInmac\fP
.br
Destination MAC address. Example: \fB-d\fP 00:08:55:64:65:6a
.br
If \fIomac\fP and \fInmac\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIomac\fP in the destination MAC address field will be replaced with \fInmac\fP.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsmac\fP or \fIomac\fP,\fInmac\fP
.br
Source MAC address. Example: \fB-s\fP 00:13:20:3e:ab:cf
.br
If \fIomac\fP and \fInmac\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIomac\fP in the source MAC address field will be replaced with \fInmac\fP.
.TP
.B \-t \fItype\fP
EtherType. Possible keywords for type are, \fBip\fP and \fBarp\fP only.
.TP
Options for \fBarp\fP (RFC 826):
.TP
.B \-o \fIopcode\fP
Operation code in integer value between 0 to 65535. For example, you can set \fIopcode\fP to 1 for ARP request, 2 for ARP reply.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsmac\fP or \fIomac\fP,\fInmac\fP
.br
Sender MAC address. Example: \fB-s\fP 00:13:20:3e:ab:cf
.br
If \fIomac\fP and \fInmac\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIomac\fP in the sender MAC address field will be replaced with \fInmac\fP.
.TP
.B \-p \fIsip\fP or \fIoip\fP,\fInip\fP
.br
Sender IP address. Example: \fB-p\fP 192.168.0.1
.br
If \fIoip\fP and \fInip\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIoip\fP in the sender IP address field will be replaced with \fInip\fP.
.TP
.B \-t \fItmac\fP or \fIomac\fP,\fInmac\fP
.br
Target MAC address. Example: \fB-t\fP 00:08:55:64:65:6a
.br
If \fIomac\fP and \fInmac\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIomac\fP in the target MAC address field will be replaced with \fInmac\fP.
.TP
.B \-q \fItip\fP or \fIoip\fP,\fInip\fP
.br
Target IP address. Example: \fB-q\fP 192.168.0.2
.br
If \fIoip\fP and \fInip\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIoip\fP in the target IP address field will be replaced with \fInip\fP.
.TP
Options for \fBip\fP (RFC 791):
.TP
.B \-i \fIid\fP
.br
Identification in integer value between 0 to 65535.
.TP
.B \-f \fIflags\fP
Control flags. Possible characters for \fIflags\fP are:
.IP
\fB-\fP : remove all flags
.br
\fBr\fP : set the reserved flag
.br
\fBd\fP : set the don't fragment flag
.br
\fBm\fP : set the more fragment flag
.IP
Example: \fB-f d\fP
.br
If any of the flags is specified, all original flags are removed automatically.
.TP
.B \-o \fIoffset\fP
Fragment offset in integer value between 0 to 7770. Value for \fIoffset\fP represents the number of 64-bit segments contained in earlier fragments which must not exceed 7770 (62160 bytes).
.TP
.B \-t \fIttl\fP
.br
Time to live in integer value between 0 to 255 (milliseconds).
.TP
.B \-p \fIproto\fP
Protocol number in integer value between 0 to 255. Some common protocol numbers are:
.IP
\fB1\fP  : Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
.br
\fB6\fP  : Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
.br
\fB17\fP : User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
.IP
For the complete list, see:
.br
\fIhttp://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-numbers\fP
.TP
.B \-s \fIsip\fP or \fIoip\fP,\fInip\fP
.br
Source IP address. Example: \fB-s\fP 192.168.0.1
.br
If \fIoip\fP and \fInip\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIoip\fP in the source IP address field will be replaced with \fInip\fP.
.TP
.B \-d \fIdip\fP or \fIoip\fP,\fInip\fP
.br
Destination IP address. Example: \fB-d\fP 192.168.0.2
.br
If \fIoip\fP and \fInip\fP are specified instead, all occurences of \fIoip\fP in the destination IP address field will be replaced with \fInip\fP.
.TP
Options for \fBicmp\fP (RFC 792):
.TP
.B \-t \fItype\fP
Type of message in integer value between 0 to 255. Some common messages are:
.IP
\fB0\fP  : Echo reply
.br
\fB3\fP  : Destination unreachable
.br
\fB8\fP  : Echo
.br
\fB11\fP : Time exceeded
.IP
For the complete list, see:
.br
\fIhttp://www.iana.org/assignments/icmp-parameters\fP
.TP
.B \-c \fIcode\fP
Error code for this ICMP message in integer value between 0 to 255. For example, \fIcode\fP for \fBtime exceeded\fP message may have one of the following values:
.IP
\fB0\fP : transit TTL exceeded
.br
\fB1\fP : reassembly TTL exceeded
.IP
For the complete list, see:
.br
\fIhttp://www.iana.org/assignments/icmp-parameters\fP
.TP
Options for \fBtcp\fP (RFC 793):
.TP
.B \-s\fP \fIsport\fP or \fIop\fP,\fInp\fP
Source port number in integer value between 0 to 65535. If \fIop\fP and \fInp\fP are specified instead, all occurrences of \fIop\fP in the source port field will be replaced with \fInp\fP.
.TP
.B \-d\fP \fIdport\fP or \fIop\fP,\fInp\fP
Destination port number in integer value between 0 to 65535. If \fIop\fP and \fInp\fP are specified instead, all occurrences of \fIop\fP in the destination port field will be replaced with \fInp\fP.
.TP
.B \-q \fIseq\fP
.br
Sequence number in integer value between 0 to 4294967295. If SYN control bit is set, e.g. character \fBs\fP is supplied to the \fB-f\fP flag, \fIseq\fP represents the initial sequence number (ISN) and the first data byte is ISN + 1.
.TP
.B \-a \fIack\fP
.br
Acknowledgment number in integer value between 0 to 4294967295. If ACK control bit is set, e.g. character \fBa\fP is supplied to the \fB-f\fP flag, \fIack\fP represents the value of the next sequence number that the receiver is expecting to receive.
.TP
.B \-f \fIflags\fP
Control flags. Possible characters for \fIflags\fP are:
.IP
\fB-\fP : remove all flags
.br
\fBu\fP : urgent pointer field is significant
.br
\fBa\fP : acknowledgment field is significant
.br
\fBp\fP : push function
.br
\fBr\fP : resets the connection
.br
\fBs\fP : synchronizes the sequence numbers
.br
\fBf\fP : no more data from sender
.IP
Example: \fB-f s\fP
.br
If any of the flags is specified, all original flags are removed automatically.
.TP
.B \-w \fIwin\fP
.br
Window size in integer value between 0 to 65535. If ACK control bit is set, e.g. character \fBa\fP is supplied to the \fB-f\fP flag, \fIwin\fP represents the number of data bytes, beginning with the one indicated in the acknowledgment number field that the receiver is willing to accept.
.TP
.B \-u \fIurg\fP
.br
Urgent pointer in integer value between 0 to 65535. If URG control bit is set, e.g. character \fBu\fP is supplied to the \fB-f\fP flag, \fIurg\fP represents a pointer that points to the first data byte following the urgent data.
.TP
Options for \fBudp\fP (RFC 768):
.TP
.B \-s\fP \fIsport\fP or \fIop\fP,\fInp\fP
Source port number in integer value between 0 to 65535. If \fIop\fP and \fInp\fP are specified instead, all occurrences of \fIop\fP in the source port field will be replaced with \fInp\fP.
.TP
.B \-d\fP \fIdport\fP or \fIop\fP,\fInp\fP
Destination port number in integer value between 0 to 65535. If \fIop\fP and \fInp\fP are specified instead, all occurrences of \fIop\fP in the destination port field will be replaced with \fInp\fP.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
bittwist(1), pcap(3), tcpdump(1)
.SH BUGS
File your bug report and send to:
.IP
Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>
.PP
Make sure you are using the latest stable version before submitting your bug report.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2012 Addy Yeow Chin Heng <ayeowch@gmail.com>
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.SH AUTHORS
Original author and current maintainer:
.IP
Addy Yeow Chin Heng
.PP
The current version is available from http://bittwist.sourceforge.net
